README.md, before:

# aws-spa

Deploy a single page app on AWS in one command.

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/lalalilo/aws-spa.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/lalalilo/aws-spa) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nicgirault/aws-spa/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nicgirault/aws-spa)

![first deployment](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nicgirault/aws-spa/master/docs/first-deployment.png)

## Install & use

```bash
npm install --dev aws-spa

npx aws-spa deploy --help
```

## Why?

Configuring the deployment of a single page app is harder than it should be. Most SPA configuration are very similar. aws-spa embodies this idea. It is meant to handle all the quirks associated with SPA configuration.

## Features

- Create AWS Bucket & CloudFront distribution & Route 53 record & ACM certificate and configure it
- Serve gzipped file
- Invalidate CloudFront after deployment
- Basic Auth (recommended to avoid search engine indexation)
- idempotent script

## Get Started

### With create-react-app

```
npx create-react-app hello-world && cd hello-world
yarn add aws-spa
yarn build

# read about [create-react-app static file caching](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/production-build#static-file-cachin)
npx aws-spa deploy hello.example.com --cacheInvalidation "index.html" --cacheBustedPrefix "static/"
```

## API

### aws-spa deploy

Deploy a single page app on AWS

#### Positionals

- `domainName`:

The domain name on which the SPA will be accessible. For example `app.example.com`.

You can also specify a path: `app.example.com/something`. This can be useful to deploy multiple versions of an app in the same s3 bucket. For example one could deploy a feature branch of the SPA like this:

```bash
aws-spa deploy app.example.com/$(git branch | grep * | cut -d ' ' -f2)
```

#### Options

- `--wait`: Wait for CloudFront distribution to be deployed & cache invalidation to be completed. If you choose not to wait (default), you won't see site changes as soon as the command ends.
- `--directory`: The directory where the static files have been generated. It must contain an index.html. Default is `build`.
- `--credentials`: This option enables basic auth for the full s3 bucket (even if the domainName specifies a path). Credentials must be of the form "username:password". Basic auth is the recommened way to avoid search engine indexation of non-production apps (such as staging). You can also set credentials through the environment variable "AWS_SPA_CREDENTIALS" (the argument will override the environment variable if both are defined)
- `--cacheInvalidation`: cache invalidation to be done in CloudFront. Default is `*`: all files are invalidated. For a `create-react-app` app you only need to invalidate `/index.html`
- `--cacheBustedPrefix`: a folder where files are suffixed with a hash (cash busting). Their `cache-control` value is set to `max-age=31536000`. For a `create-react-app` app you can specify `static/`.
- `--noPrompt`: Disable confirm message that prompts on non CI environments (env CI=true).

## Migrate an existing SPA on aws-spa

aws-spa is aware of the resources it is managing thanks to tags.

If a S3 bucket named with the domain name already exists, a prompt will ask you if you want to deleguate the management of this bucket to aws-s3 (this will basically checks that s3 bucket is well configured to serve a static website).

If a CloudFront distribution with this S3 bucket already exists, the script will fail because CloudFront distribution update is quite complicated.

- If you don't care about downtime, you can delete the CloudFront distribution first.
- If you care about downtime, you can configure the CloudFront distribution by yourself (don't forget to gzip the files) and then add the tag key: `managed-by-aws-spa`, value: `v1`.

## IAM

- cloudfront:CreateDistribution
- cloudfront:ListDistributions
- cloudfront:ListTagsForResource
- cloudfront:TagResource
- cloudfront:GetDistributionConfig
- cloudfront:CreateInvalidation

**TODO**: complete missing policies

### If using simple auth

- lambda:GetFunction
- lambda:EnableReplication\*
- iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole
- iam:CreateRole on resource: arn:aws:iam::<account_id>:role/aws-spa-basic-auth-\*

## FAQ

### Why not using Ansible, Saltstack, Terraform, Cloudformation, Troposphere, etc?

If it better suits your use case, these tools are probably a very good choice because there are done for this. Meanwhile there are some reasons why it is written in javascript:

- in my CI/CD installing Ansible, awscli or Terraform takes more than 1 minute. Since my SPA needs nodejs to be built, having a the same dependency to deploy is convenient & fast.
- Developers would have to learn these tools while they have already tons of things to learn. Using a script in the same language that they develop is nice.
- These tools are quite heavy while deploying a SPA requires only a couple of AWS API calls.

Commit message:

feat: allow to override s3 bucket region

README.md, after:

# aws-spa

Deploy a single page app on AWS in one command.

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/lalalilo/aws-spa.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/lalalilo/aws-spa) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nicgirault/aws-spa/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nicgirault/aws-spa)

![first deployment](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nicgirault/aws-spa/master/docs/first-deployment.png)

## Install & use

```bash
npm install --dev aws-spa

npx aws-spa deploy --help
```

## Why?

Configuring the deployment of a single page app is harder than it should be. Most SPA configuration are very similar. aws-spa embodies this idea. It is meant to handle all the quirks associated with SPA configuration.

## Features

- Create AWS Bucket & CloudFront distribution & Route 53 record & ACM certificate and configure it
- Serve gzipped file
- Invalidate CloudFront after deployment
- Basic Auth (recommended to avoid search engine indexation)
- idempotent script

## Get Started

### With create-react-app

```
npx create-react-app hello-world && cd hello-world
yarn add aws-spa
yarn build

# read about [create-react-app static file caching](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/production-build#static-file-cachin)
npx aws-spa deploy hello.example.com --cacheInvalidation "index.html" --cacheBustedPrefix "static/"
```

## API

### aws-spa deploy

Deploy a single page app on AWS

#### Positionals

- `domainName`:

The domain name on which the SPA will be accessible. For example `app.example.com`.

You can also specify a path: `app.example.com/something`. This can be useful to deploy multiple versions of an app in the same s3 bucket. For example one could deploy a feature branch of the SPA like this:

```bash
aws-spa deploy app.example.com/$(git branch | grep * | cut -d ' ' -f2)
```

#### Options

- `--wait`: Wait for CloudFront distribution to be deployed & cache invalidation to be completed. If you choose not to wait (default), you won't see site changes as soon as the command ends.
- `--directory`: The directory where the static files have been generated. It must contain an index.html. Default is `build`.
- `--credentials`: This option enables basic auth for the full s3 bucket (even if the domainName specifies a path). Credentials must be of the form "username:password". Basic auth is the recommened way to avoid search engine indexation of non-production apps (such as staging). You can also set credentials through the environment variable "AWS_SPA_CREDENTIALS" (the argument will override the environment variable if both are defined)
- `--cacheInvalidation`: cache invalidation to be done in CloudFront. Default is `*`: all files are invalidated. For a `create-react-app` app you only need to invalidate `/index.html`
- `--cacheBustedPrefix`: a folder where files are suffixed with a hash (cash busting). Their `cache-control` value is set to `max-age=31536000`. For a `create-react-app` app you can specify `static/`.
- `--noPrompt`: Disable confirm message that prompts on non CI environments (env CI=true).

You can control in which region the S3 bucket is thanks to the environment variable `AWS_SPA_BUCKET_REGION`. aws-spa does not handle bucket region change.

## Migrate an existing SPA on aws-spa

aws-spa is aware of the resources it is managing thanks to tags.

If a S3 bucket named with the domain name already exists, a prompt will ask you if you want to deleguate the management of this bucket to aws-s3 (this will basically checks that s3 bucket is well configured to serve a static website).

If a CloudFront distribution with this S3 bucket already exists, the script will fail because CloudFront distribution update is quite complicated.

- If you don't care about downtime, you can delete the CloudFront distribution first.
- If you care about downtime, you can configure the CloudFront distribution by yourself (don't forget to gzip the files) and then add the tag key: `managed-by-aws-spa`, value: `v1`.

## IAM

- cloudfront:CreateDistribution
- cloudfront:ListDistributions
- cloudfront:ListTagsForResource
- cloudfront:TagResource
- cloudfront:GetDistributionConfig
- cloudfront:CreateInvalidation

**TODO**: complete missing policies

### If using simple auth

- lambda:GetFunction
- lambda:EnableReplication\*
- iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole
- iam:CreateRole on resource: arn:aws:iam::<account_id>:role/aws-spa-basic-auth-\*

## FAQ

### Why not using Ansible, Saltstack, Terraform, Cloudformation, Troposphere, etc?

If it better suits your use case, these tools are probably a very good choice because there are done for this. Meanwhile there are some reasons why it is written in javascript:

- in my CI/CD installing Ansible, awscli or Terraform takes more than 1 minute. Since my SPA needs nodejs to be built, having a the same dependency to deploy is convenient & fast.
- Developers would have to learn these tools while they have already tons of things to learn. Using a script in the same language that they develop is nice.
- These tools are quite heavy while deploying a SPA requires only a couple of AWS API calls.
